hey everyone welcome back to another
informative chungu here at the Chinese
sayings podcast Laszlo Montgomery here
with another episode featuring another
hero from yesteryear today's character
getting top billing has already been
mentioned in various China history
podcast episodes and is in fact the
featured topic and CHP episode 91 this
of course is the great true warrior king
showing you today we look at one of the
true sacred cows of cheong you poor fool
chung joke these four characters like
most all of these Chinese sayings say a
lot in only four characters four
syllables this one has a long story
attached to it poor fool Changjo let's
do two usual paw means to break to break
something a fool is a kind of pot that
was commonly used in ancient China to
make your rice and cook food soldiers
always carried them as part of their
gear poor fool to break your cooking pot
Chung means to sink and Joe there's a
boat so chuncho sink a boat broken
cooking pot sink boat as I intimated
just a brief moment ago this Chung you
there's a distinguished provenance first
of all it came to us from the most
revered ancient source for Chinese
history the Shirky the records of the
grand historian Sima Chen and his Papa
CIMMYT on but the Sun grabbed all the
headlines and the chapter from which
this Chung you sprang forth is called
the Shang you Bungie and the story
behind this sweeping epic concerns the
Battle of julu
that you Luger John 207 BCE for Western
Civ aficionados this period was that of
the second Punic War the one starring
Hannibal 207 BCE we know what that means
in China the first emperor Qin Shihuang
died in 210 so this was just a few years
after his grim passing and all the
intrigue and bloodletting that was
discussed and passed
chyna history podcast episodes was in
full swing by this time Shinar sure the
founding Emperor's son was now emperor
and he was hardly a chip off the old
block he was grossly manipulated by one
of the great villains of ancient Chinese
history the eunuch choco now thanks to
this situation it didn't take long at
all for this first imperial dynasty in
Chinese history to dramatically and
quickly unravel Jinger Huang gets a lot
of credit for being a great Emperor and
rightly so for a whole bunch of reasons
but everybody breathed a sigh of relief
when he died suddenly life was harsh
under this emperor and people started
rebelling almost at once against the Qin
some of the preaching Jo dynasty states
started coming back to life and one of
these was Chu the great and mighty true
state centered mostly around who Bay as
things deteriorated in the qin capital
of Shenyang present-day she on one of
their great generals Zhang Han was sent
out to put out all these fires with
different rebel armies who were
spontaneously rising up and revolt
before the Battle of julu there was the
Battle of ding dong participating in
this battle was a noble name Zhang Liang
he was the son of a true military legend
who had gone down fighting against the
forces of change sir Guang during choose
final days Zhang Liang had a brother who
also died and so according to tradition
Yong Yong adopted his brother's son and
this nephew was named Xiang Yu Xiang
Liang had started leading Chu rebel
soldiers against the Qin as soon as word
got out that the feared Qin Shi Huang
was dead but long story short jung-han
was sent to put Yong Yong away and
that's exactly what ended up happening
at ding dong where the she enforces
still a force to reckon with defeated
the Chu rebel army as soon as Jong Han
handed the Chu rebels a defeat he turned
on his heels and headed in the direction
of the former Chou State to go deal with
an upper
they're centered around the old child
capital of honden so Jiang Han laid
siege to hunt an and it was looking bad
for these Chow rebels so their ruler
sent word to Chu begging for help
the true leader who had rose up in
revolt against the Qin Dynasty agreed to
send two armies to go rescue job from
this siege one army was led by Song yi
and the other by lil bung now serving as
song Yi's deputy was young you and the
true king said to Leo bong and Song yi
whoever conquered Guanzhong first that
was the Qin homeland and part of the
heartland of China they would receive
the honorific title king of Guanzhong
Xiang Yu was itching to get the show on
the road and go attacked Qin and Han
dong and relieved Jo but Song yi first
wanted to take care of a little business
and she Shandong province and he was in
no hurry to go relieve Jo and then
suddenly started making a lot of noise
about Xiang Yu that was was less than
complimentary so Xiang Yu killed Song yi
at modern-day Tae Yong
just south of Jinan then he seized
command of the army and the next day
Xiang Yu and 20,000 rebel troops were
honden bound ready to face off against
Zhang Han and December 208 BCE they
crossed the Yellow River and there
Xiang Yu gave the fateful order to his
men to prepare just enough food to eat
for three days and then to smash their
cooking pot paw fool and then once this
was done they were then ordered to
chuncho sink their boats there was no
going back
they were at the point of no return
crossing the Rubicon they'd either
defeat Qin and rescue Jo or die trying
and on the battlefields of julu just to
the northwest of Han Don in Hebei
province they were nine engagements and
Chu outnumbered it was said ten to one
fought like Xiang Yu expected them to do
knowing there was no going back do or
die baby a hundred thousand of Zhang
hans sheen forces were killed and over
200,000 taken captive and to avenge his
uncle Xiang Yang's death at dingdong and
also to get out of the hassle of having
a deal with feeding and watching over
200,000 prisoners
Xiang Yu had them all buried alive not
sure how he had that taken care of
but it happened at a small place called
EEMA just south of Han dong near sanmon
sha and to this day they're still
digging skeletons out of the ground that
leads many to believe this may have some
truth to it
so Xiang Yu had probably the biggest day
of his life I mean this was a complete
and total come-from-behind victory with
the brash young underdog defeating the
my teaching army under their ever
victorious general Jung Han now before
the battle Xiang Yu had his men smashed
their cauldrons paw foo and sink them
boats
Changjo remember that one when you go
for broke when you're committed to
achieving something and cast your fate
to the wind you're following the example
of Xiang Yu at julu and in the course of
world history
Xiang Yu wasn't the only one to adopt
this strategy Alexander the Great
after he landed in Persia and hernan
cortes Cortese the killer when he landed
in Mexico and before he went on to
conquer the Aztecs both of those
conquerors had their own version of paw
pooch uncho damn the torpedoes full
speed ahead this one will get you all
kinds of mileage if you use it sparingly
so despite Xiang Yu having the greatest
moment of his career the other general
Leo bung beat him to Shenyang and was
able to claim the kingship of Guanzhong
from the true ruler Zhang you felt that
honor was rightfully his
shun you and Leo bung from that point on
became blood enemies and each was
determined to unify China and succeed
Qin Shihuang as emperor of China those
two will go on fighting and contending
for control of China and in 202 BCE the
Chu Han contention as this dramatic
struggle is referred to in the history
came to a dramatic end and Leo bung who
like Julius Caesar fortune favored so
much emerged as the most powerful force
in China he'll go on to unite the
country and his han dynasty we'll get
everything organized in China for the
next twenty-one hundred years Xiang Yu
will be killed of course and that's a
well known story that has yielded a few
decent TV dramas movies and Chinese
operas so that is our Chung you for this
time poor fool chuncho break the pots
sink the ships remember that Chinese
saying whenever you - despite knowing
the painful cost of failure go for all
the marbles and achieving your goal take
care everyone this is Laszlo Montgomery
signing off from the Golden State
somewhere in the city of Los Angeles
I'll be back next week with another
chung you and another story from China's
ancient past here at the Chinese sayings
podcast
you